.\" Man page for WASM - Web App System Management
.\" Generated for WASM v0.13.16
.\"
.TH WASM 1 "January 2026" "WASM" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wasm \- Web App System Management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wasm
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B WASM
(Web App System Management) is a CLI tool for deploying and managing
web applications on Linux servers. It automates the entire deployment process:
Git repository cloning, dependency installation, build, systemd service
configuration, Nginx/Apache reverse proxy configuration, and SSL certificate
acquisition with Let's Encrypt.
.PP
Supported application types:
.RS
.IP "\fBnextjs\fR" 12
Next.js applications (React SSR)
.IP "\fBnodejs\fR" 12
Generic Node.js applications
.IP "\fBvite\fR" 12
Vite applications (React, Vue, Svelte)
.IP "\fBpython\fR" 12
Python applications (Flask, FastAPI, Django)
.IP "\fBstatic\fR" 12
Static sites (HTML/CSS/JS)
.IP "\fBauto\fR" 12
Automatic type detection
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
Global options go \fBBEFORE\fR the command:
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show WASM version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output (debug).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Run in interactive mode with menus.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Show what actions would be performed without executing them.
Useful for verifying before destructive operations.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Produce output in JSON format.
Useful for script integration.
.TP
.BR \-\-changelog
Show the changelog for the current version.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Main commands (web applications)
.TP
.BR create ", " new ", " deploy
Deploy a new web application.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-domain " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Application domain (required).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-source " \fISOURCE\fR"
Git repository URL or local path (required).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type " \fITYPE\fR"
Application type: nextjs, nodejs, vite, python, static, auto.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " \fIPORT\fR"
Port the application will run on (default: 3000).
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-webserver " \fISERVER\fR"
Web server: nginx or apache (default: nginx).
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-branch " \fIBRANCH\fR"
Git branch to deploy (default: main).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-ssl
Do not configure SSL certificate.
.TP
.BR \-\-env\-file " \fIFILE\fR"
Environment variables file for the application.
.TP
.BR \-\-pm ", " \-\-package\-manager " \fIPM\fR"
Package manager: npm, pnpm, bun, auto.
.RE
.TP
.BR list ", " ls
List all deployed applications.
.TP
.BR status ", " info " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Show detailed status of an application.
.TP
.BR start " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Start a stopped application.
.TP
.BR stop " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Stop a running application.
.TP
.BR restart " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Restart an application.
.TP
.BR update ", " upgrade " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Update application: git pull, reinstall dependencies, rebuild.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-branch " \fIBRANCH\fR"
Switch to a different branch.
.TP
.BR \-\-pm ", " \-\-package\-manager " \fIPM\fR"
Use a different package manager.
.RE
.TP
.BR delete ", " remove ", " rm " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Completely delete an application.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force ", " \-y
Skip confirmation.
.TP
.BR \-\-keep\-files
Keep application files.
.RE
.TP
.BR logs " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
View application logs.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-follow
Follow logs in real time.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-lines " \fIN\fR"
Number of lines to show.
.RE
.TP
.B health
Run system diagnostics: disk space, service status,
SSL certificates, memory usage.
.SS Website management (site)
.TP
.B site create
Create Nginx/Apache site configuration.
.TP
.B site list
List all configured sites.
.TP
.B site enable \fISITE\fR
Enable a site.
.TP
.B site disable \fISITE\fR
Disable a site.
.TP
.B site show \fISITE\fR
Show site configuration.
.TP
.B site delete \fISITE\fR
Delete a site.
.SS Systemd service management (service, svc)
.TP
.B service create
Create a new systemd service.
.TP
.B service list
List services managed by WASM.
.TP
.B service status \fINAME\fR
View service status.
.TP
.B service start \fINAME\fR
Start a service.
.TP
.B service stop \fINAME\fR
Stop a service.
.TP
.B service restart \fINAME\fR
Restart a service.
.TP
.B service logs \fINAME\fR
View service logs.
.TP
.B service delete \fINAME\fR
Delete a service.
.SS SSL certificate management (cert, ssl)
.TP
.B cert create
Obtain a new SSL certificate via Let's Encrypt.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-domain " \fIDOMAIN\fR"
Domain(s) for the certificate.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-email " \fIEMAIL\fR"
Email for Let's Encrypt notifications.
.TP
.BR \-\-standalone
Use standalone mode (port 80 must be free).
.TP
.BR \-\-nginx
Use Nginx plugin (recommended if Nginx is installed).
.TP
.BR \-\-apache
Use Apache plugin.
.RE
.TP
.B cert list
List all certificates.
.TP
.B cert info \fIDOMAIN\fR
Show detailed certificate information.
.TP
.B cert renew
Renew certificates close to expiration.
.TP
.B cert revoke \fIDOMAIN\fR
Revoke a certificate.
.TP
.B cert delete \fIDOMAIN\fR
Delete a certificate.
.SS Database management (db, database)
.TP
.B db install \fIENGINE\fR
Install database engine: mysql, postgresql, redis, mongodb.
.TP
.B db uninstall \fIENGINE\fR
Uninstall database engine.
.TP
.B db status \fIENGINE\fR
View engine status.
.TP
.B db start|stop|restart \fIENGINE\fR
Control engine service.
.TP
.B db engines
List available engines and their status.
.TP
.B db create \fINAME\fR
Create a new database.
.TP
.B db drop \fINAME\fR
Delete a database.
.TP
.B db list
List databases.
.TP
.B db user\-create \fIUSER\fR
Create database user.
.TP
.B db user\-delete \fIUSER\fR
Delete database user.
.TP
.B db user\-list
List database users.
.TP
.B db grant \fIUSER\fR \fIDATABASE\fR
Grant privileges to a user.
.TP
.B db revoke \fIUSER\fR \fIDATABASE\fR
Revoke privileges from a user.
.TP
.B db backup \fINAME\fR
Create database backup.
.TP
.B db restore \fINAME\fR \fIFILE\fR
Restore database from backup.
.TP
.B db connect
Connect interactively to a database.
.TP
.B db connection\-string \fINAME\fR \fIUSER\fR
Generate connection string for the application.
.TP
.B db config
Configure engine credentials.
.SS Backup and restore (backup, bak)
.TP
.B backup create \fIDOMAIN\fR
Create application backup.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-description " \fITEXT\fR"
Description or note for the backup.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-env
Exclude .env files from backup.
.TP
.BR \-\-include\-node\-modules
Include node_modules (significantly increases size).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-tags " \fITAGS\fR"
Comma-separated tags to organize backups.
.RE
.TP
.B backup list [\fIDOMAIN\fR]
List available backups.
.TP
.B backup restore \fIBACKUP_ID\fR
Restore from a backup.
.TP
.B backup verify \fIBACKUP_ID\fR
Verify backup integrity.
.TP
.B backup info \fIBACKUP_ID\fR
Show detailed backup information.
.TP
.B backup delete \fIBACKUP_ID\fR
Delete a backup.
.TP
.B backup storage
Show backup storage usage.
.TP
.BR rollback ", " rb " \fIDOMAIN\fR [\fIBACKUP_ID\fR]"
Restore application to a previous backup.
If BACKUP_ID is not specified, uses the most recent.
.SS Web dashboard (web)
.TP
.B web start
Start the web dashboard server.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-host " \fIHOST\fR"
Host to listen on (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " \fIPORT\fR"
Port to listen on (default: 8080).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-daemon
Run in background.
.RE
.TP
.B web stop
Stop the web dashboard.
.TP
.B web status
View dashboard status.
.TP
.B web token
Show access token.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-regenerate
Generate new access token.
.RE
.TP
.B web install
Install dashboard dependencies.
.SS Initial setup (setup)
.TP
.B setup init
Initialize WASM directories and configuration.
Must be run with sudo the first time.
.TP
.B setup completions
Install shell autocompletion (Bash, Zsh, Fish).
.RS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-shell " \fISHELL\fR"
Specific shell: bash, zsh, fish.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user\-only
Install only for current user (without sudo).
.RE
.TP
.B setup permissions
Verify required permissions.
.TP
.B setup ssh
Configure SSH key for Git authentication.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-generate
Generate new key if it doesn't exist.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type " \fITYPE\fR"
Key type: ed25519, rsa, ecdsa.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-test " \fIHOST\fR"
Test SSH connection to a host.
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-show
Show the public key.
.RE
.TP
.B setup doctor
Run system diagnostics.
.SS Internal store (store)
.TP
.B store init
Initialize internal database.
.TP
.B store stats
Show store statistics.
.TP
.B store import
Import legacy apps from systemd/nginx.
.TP
.B store export
Export data to JSON.
.TP
.B store sync
Sync with current service state.
.TP
.B store path
Show database file path.
.SS Security monitor (monitor, mon)
.TP
.B monitor status
View monitoring service status.
.TP
.B monitor scan
Run a security scan.
.TP
.B monitor enable
Enable security monitor.
.TP
.B monitor disable
Disable monitor.
.TP
.B monitor test\-email
Send test email.
.TP
.B monitor config
Show current configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/www/apps/
Directory where applications are deployed.
.TP
.I /var/www/backups/
Application backups directory.
.TP
.I /etc/wasm/
WASM global configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/wasm/
WASM user configuration.
.TP
.I /var/lib/wasm/store.db
SQLite database with app information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WASM_CONFIG_DIR
Configuration directory (default: ~/.config/wasm).
.TP
.B WASM_APPS_DIR
Applications directory (default: /var/www/apps).
.TP
.B WASM_BACKUPS_DIR
Backups directory (default: /var/www/backups).
.SH EXAMPLES
Deploy a Next.js application:
.RS
.nf
wasm create -d example.com -s git@github.com:user/app.git -t nextjs
.fi
.RE
.PP
See what delete would do without executing:
.RS
.nf
wasm --dry-run delete example.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
List applications in JSON format:
.RS
.nf
wasm --json list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install MySQL and create a database:
.RS
.nf
wasm db install mysql
wasm db create myapp_db
wasm db user-create myapp_user -d myapp_db
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create backup and restore:
.RS
.nf
wasm backup create example.com -m "Before update"
wasm backup restore backup_id_here
.fi
.RE
.PP
Get SSL certificate:
.RS
.nf
wasm cert create -d example.com -e admin@example.com --nginx
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful operation.
.TP
.B 1
General error or operation failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR nginx (8),
.BR apache2 (8),
.BR certbot (1),
.BR git (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Perkybeet/wasm/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Yago Lopez Prado <https://github.com/Perkybeet>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2024-2025 Yago Lopez Prado.
.br
Licensed under WASM-NCSAL 1.0 (Non-commercial, source-available).
.br
https://github.com/Perkybeet/wasm/blob/main/LICENSE
