.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gcelistimg.1
.\"
.TH gcelistimg 1
.SH NAME
gcelistimg \- List images in GCE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcelistimg [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gcelistimg
List an image owned by the given GCE project.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-c --credentials-file CONFIG_FILE"
Specifies the service account credentials to use. By default service account
credentials are expected in
.IR ~/.config/gce.
The crendentials file must match the given project name followed by the
.IR .json
extension.
.IP "--image-name IMAGE_NAME"
Specify the name of the image to be listed. The program will look for
an exact match of the name. This option is mutually exclusive with
.IR --image-name-frag ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
.IP "--image-name-frag IMAGE_NAME_FRAGMENT"
Specify a section of an image name for the image(s) to be listed. Every
image that matches the name fragment will be listed. This
option is mutually exclusive with
.IR --image-name ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
.IP "--image-name-match REGEX"
Specify a regular expression to match an image name. Every image matching the
regular expression will be listed. This option is mutually
exclusive with
.IR --image-name ,
and
.IR --image-name-frag .
.IP "-p --project PROJECT_NAME"
Specifies the project name to use to connect to GCE and used to search for the
image to be listed.
.IP "--verbose"
Print extra output about the operations performed to STDOUT.
.IP "--detail"
Print full image attributes. Without this option, only the name is printed to STDOUT.
.IP "--version"
Print the version of he program
.SH EXAMPLE
gcelistimg --project example --image-name-match '.*v15.*' --detail --verbose

Will list all images that match the
.I .*v15.*
regular expression in the image name. The image details will be written to STDOUT.
.SH AUTHOR
SUSE Public Cloud Team (public-cloud-dev@susecloud.net)
