=========
Changelog
=========

0.14.0 (2026-01-13)
===================

Feature release.

* [#48] Added health check tooling for Celery Beat.

0.13.0 (2026-01-09)
===================

Feature release.

* [#42] Added Dutch translation assets.
* Added ``maykin_common.health_checks`` package and ``health-checks`` extra with
  defaults for container health checks.
* Added a CLI ``maykin-common`` which knows how to execute the health checks.

0.12.0 (2026-01-05)
===================

Feature release.

* Ported the ``config`` helper for settings from default project - it's available from
  the ``maykin_common.config`` module.

0.11.0 (2025-10-08)
===================

Feature release.

.. warning::
    Please review the installation guide, as some new (custom) settings should be 
    defined and new entries in the ``urlpatterns`` are expected.

* Improved the base blocks and templates for API projects (see :ref:`apis`).
* Moved the common views from default project:

    * ``PasswordResetView`` with built-in throttling support.
    * Custom ``csrf_failure`` view to handle double-click login issues.

0.10.0 (2025-09-09)
===================

Feature release.

* Add testing utility ``MetricsAssertMixin`` that provides assertions for validating 
  metrics in tests (see :ref:`test-mixins-reference`)

0.9.1 (2025-09-05)
==================

Bugfix release.

* Fixed image data in HTML to PDF rendering being parsed as a URL.

0.9.0 (2025-08-27)
==================

Feature release.

* [#6] Fixed missing test coverage for migration operations.
* Added API ``index_component`` template.
* Added Maykin logo/favicon static assets.
* Added template block for header in ``index_base.html``.

0.8.0 (2025-08-21)
==================

Feature release for better OTel support with Celery.

* You can now defer the open telemetry setup with the ``_OTEL_DEFER_SETUP=True`` envvar.
* When using Celery process pool workers (the default), the OTel setup now automatically
  runs after the worker process has forked.

0.7.0 (2025-08-05)
==================

Feature release for Open Telemetry support.

* Added ``otel`` package extra and ``maykin_common.otel.setup_otel`` helper to
  instrument projects with Open Telemetry. See the documentation for details.
* Added test coverage for the throttling mixin and refactored it a bit.
* Fixed a reference to a stylesheet that no longer exists.

0.6.0 (2025-07-10)
==================

PDF utilities feature release.

* 💥 Renamed ``render_to_pdf`` to ``render_template_to_pdf``.
* Exposed helper ``render_to_pdf`` to render HTML to PDF without needing the template
  engine.
* Added ``variant`` option, defaulting to ``pdf/ua-1`` (accessible PDFs).

0.5.0 (2025-07-04)
==================

Feature release.

* Added a post-processing hook for ``URLField(default="")`` schemas generated by
  drf-spectacular, which don't pass OpenAPI linting/validation.

0.4.0 (2025-06-23)
==================

* Added ``vcr`` extra that adds VCRMixin and TestCases.

0.3.2 (2025-06-11)
==================

Small CSS bugfix.

* Fixed the appearance of tab titles (larger font-size and line height).
* Fixed the display-as-flex rule for the tab panel content when visible.

0.3.1 (2025-06-11)
==================

Fixed packaging mistake.

* Fixed missing Javascript assets in published package.

0.3.0 (2025-06-11)
==================

Feature and cleanup release.

* Restructured the documentation.
* [#6] The ``pdf`` module now has 100% test coverage.
* [#5] Ported the API project templates and static assets and made the landing page
  accessible.
* Improved the DX for running tests locally.
